Welcome, girls, to another Jenkins lecture.
In this lecture, we're going to learn how you can run some stages or steps.
Parallelly in.
Jenkins All right, let's jump into Jenkins console.
Most of the times, you will run your steps sequentially.
One of the scenarios where you might run your stages, parallelly, is if you are trying to run some
tests, some tests should be run on Windows, some on Linux.
So this is a sample pipeline script.
As you could see, the agent is specified as none.
So what that means is every stage has to specify the agent.
So we have the stage run tests and this parallel means that whatever is inside this parallel block will
run parallel.
So in this case, we have two stages inside this parallel block stage test on windows and stage test
on Linux.
And this stage test on Windows runs on an agent where the level is Windows.
This could be ac2 box.
And this stage test on Linux runs on an agent with level Linux.
So this could be ac2 running Linux.
And for this test on window stage, it runs this step which runs a batch file run test bat.
And for Linux, we run a shell script, run tests, S-H, and then it has the post section for both
of these stages.
So this parallel means that these two stages are going to run parallel.
So I don't want to run the whole thing because I don't have the different label and batch file and stuff,
but I'm just going to replace this with display commands and show that it runs parallel.
All right.
I have modified the pipeline script, so I removed the label for the agent as well as the post build
actions.
I'm just displaying these run Windows tests and run Linux tests from the two stages.
I also implemented a slip command so that we can see both of these stages are running parallel.
If I don't put the slip command, it will be done too fast and we won't be able to detect whether they
run sequentially or parallel.
All right, let's have this and then click build now.
All right.
So you can see the test on windows is paused test on Linux is also paused.
All right how do you see they are both executed.
And so if I go to the logs, all right, so both slept for 10 seconds and it should say parallel as
well as pipeline parallel and then it called the run Windows tests and run Linux stage.
All right.
This is how you run stages in parallel.
Now, let's see how you can run different steps in parallel.
All right.
So now I change the pipeline script a little bit.
So now we have only one stage run parallel tests and we have the steps where we are running this Windows
test and Linux test blocks parallel.
So we have this keyword parallel and then a parenthesis.
So it starts and ends in the in the steps block.
And then within this parentheses you have to give two labels.
In my case, I'm using Windows Test and within the Windows test, I'm sleeping it for 20 seconds so
that we can detect they're running properly and that I'm displaying echo running in Windows.
Similarly, under Linux test, I'm for 20 seconds and echoing running in Linux, so let's save this.
So one thing to note, the pipeline view shows different stages.
So previously when we tested this and so it was a little easier because we could see two different stage
weighting.
But now here we are not going to see two different steps in the stage in this stage view, but we have
to go to logs to see that those two blocks in the steps are running parallel.
So let's click build now.
All right, so number eight is building, so I'm going to go to console output.
And here you can see both the Windows test and Linux test is slipping currently for 20 seconds.
So as soon as they stop sleeping, there you go.
They executed the actual Linux command echo and the job is done.
Pretty straightforward.
All right, folks, that's how you execute steps and stages.
Parallelly in Jenkins.
That's it for this one.
I'll see you guys, girls in the next lecture by.